It's from Lord Grantham.
Really? What on earth does he want?
He wants to change our lives.
If you knew that was your decision, why put Mary through it?
But I didn't know it was my decision, my final decision, until tonight. But I find I cannot ruin the estate or hollow out the title for the sake of Mary. Even with a better man than that.
I try to understand. I just can't.
Why should you? Downton is in my blood  and in my bones. It's not in yours. And I can no more be the cause of its destruction than I could betray my country. Besides, how was I to know he wouldn't take her without the money?
Don't pretend to be a child because it suits you.
Do you think she would have been happy with a fortune hunter?
She might have been. I was.
Have you been happy? Really have I made you happy?
Yes. That is, since you fell in love with me. Which if I remember correctly was about a year after we were married.
Not a year. Not as long as that. But it wouldn't have happened for Mary.
Why not?
Because I am so much nicer than the Duke of Crowborough.
I'll be the judge of that.
No big announcement then?
No, nor likely to be. He's off on the nine o'clock train.
He never is?! And when we've had a turkey killed for tomorrow's dinner. Well I wonder what she did wrong?
She did nothing wrong. Not from the way his lordship was talking.
So his Grace turned out to be graceless.
So he slipped the hook?
At least I'm not fishing with no bait.
I was terribly sorry to hear about your cousins.
You said.
At least Lady Mary's prospects must have rather improved.
Have they?
Haven't they?
I will not be coy and pretend I do not understand your meaning, though you seem very informed on this family's private affairs. But you ought perhaps to know that I do not intend to fight the entail. Not any part of it.
You can't be serious?
It pains me to say it but I am.
You will give up your entire estate, your wife's money into the bargain, to a perfect stranger? You won't even put up a fight?
I hope he proves to be perfect but I rather doubt it.
Very odd thing to joke about.
No odder than this conversation. So. There you have it. But Mary will still have her settlement which you won't find ungenerous.
I'm... I'm sorry?
I only meant that her portion, when she marries, will be more than respectable. You'll be pleased, I promise you.
Oh heavens. I hope I haven't given the wrong impression.
You know very well the impression...
My dear Lord Grantham...
Don't 'my dear Lord Grantham' me! You knew what you were doing when you came here. You encouraged Mary, all of us, to thinking...
Forgive me but I came to express my sympathies and my friendship. Nothing more. Lady Mary is a charming person - whoever marries her will be a lucky man. He will not, however, be me.
Mr Bates? Are you there? ... I brought something up, in case you were hungry.
That's very kind.
I'm ever so sorry you're going.
I'll be alright.
Of course you will. There's always a place for a man like you.
Oh yes. Something will turn up.
Tell us when you're fixed. Just drop us a line. Else I'll worry.
Well, we can't have that.
Do you think we'll have a duchess to wait on? Imagine that!
You won't be waiting on her whatever happens.
There's no reason why the eldest daughter and heiress of the Earl of Grantham should not wear a duchess' coronet with honour.
Heiress, Mr Carson? Has it been decided?
It will be if there's any justice in the world.
I'm afraid we're rather a female party tonight, Duke. But you know what it's like trying to balance numbers in the country. A single man outranks the holy grail.
What were you and Mary doing in the attics this afternoon?
I expect Mary was just showing the duke the house. Weren't you?
The attics?
Yes. Mary took the duke up to the attics.
Whatever for?
Why was this, dear?
We were just looking around.
Looking around?! What is there to look at but servants' rooms? What was the real reason?
Don't be such a chatterbox, Edith.
I think we'll go through.
I still don't understand...
Will you hold your tongue?!
He can't lift. He can't serve at table. He's dropping things all over the place. On a night like tonight he should act as a third footman. As it is, my lord, we may have to have a maid in the drawing room.
Cheer up, Carson. There are worse things happening in the world.
Not worse than a maid serving a duke!
And are you pleased to be alone with me, m'lady?
Dear, if I answered truthfully you'll think me rather forward. ... I don't think we should pry. It feels rather disrespectful.
No nonsense. It's your father's house, isn't it? You've a right to know what goes on in it. Where does this lead?
To the men's quarters, with a lock on the women's side. Only Mrs Hughes is allowed to turn it.
Mrs Hughes, and you. ... And here?
A footman, I imagine. ... Should you do that?
Why not? I'm... I'm making a study on the genus 'footmen'. I seek to know their creatures' ways.
Someone's coming!
Can I help you, m'lady?
We were just exploring.
Are you looking for Thomas, your grace?
No. As Lady Mary said, we've just been exploring.
Would you care to explore my room, m'lady?
Of course not, Bates. I'm sorry to have bothered you. We were just going down.
Why did you apologise to that man? It's not his business what we do.
I always apologise when I'm in the wrong. It's a habit of mine.
It's a pity Bates spoiled the arrival this afternoon.
He didn't spoil anything. He fell over.
So undignified. Carson hates that kind of thing.
I don't care what Carson thinks.
Harrumph. A message from the Dowager Countess, m'lady. She says she won't come to tea but she'll join you for dinner.
Carson, I hope you weren't embarrassed this afternoon. I can assure you the duke very much appreciated his welcome.
I'm glad.
Is Bates alright?
I think so, m'lord.
It must be so difficult for you, all the same.
Don't stir.
Well what then?
I don't know. The secret passages and the attics,...
It seems a bit odd but why not. I'll just tell Mama.
No, don't tell your mama.
There's nothing wrong in it.
No indeed, I'm only worried the others will want to join us.
Mary's settling him in.
Cora, don't let Mary make a fool of herself.
Oh, Lady Grantham. I have a confession to make which I hope won't cause too much bother. My man was taken ill just as I was leaving so...
That won't be a problem will it, Carson?
Certainly not. I shall look after his Grace myself.
Oh no, I wouldn't dream of being such a nuisance. Surely a footman... I remember this man. Didn't you serve me when I dined with Lady Grantham in London?
I did, your Grace.
Ah, there we are. We shall do very well together, won't we... ah...
Thomas, your Grace.
Thomas.
You all ready? Very well, we shall go out to greet them.
And me, Mr Carson?
No Daisy, not you.
Well, it's certainly a great day for Downton to welcome a duke under our roof.
Well I'm going to write to Murray.
He won't say anything different.
Well we have to start somewhere. Our duty is to Mary. Well, give him (the Duke of Crowborough) a date for when Mary's out of mourning. No one wants to kiss a girl in black.
What are you doing up here?
It's a free country.
Well, I'm going for my dinner. You two can stay here... plotting.
Oh damn, such a glare! I feel as if I were on stage at the Gaiety.
We're used to it. I do wish you'd let me install it in the dower house. It's very convenient. The man who manages to generate it could look after yours as well.
No. I couldn't have electricity in the house. I wouldn't sleep a wink. All those vapours, seeping about.
Even Cora won't have it in the bedroom. She did wonder about the kitchens but I couldn't see the point.
Well before anyone joins us I'm glad of this chance for a little talk. I gather Murray was here today?
News travels fast. Yes I saw him and he's not optimistic that there's anything we can do.
Well I refuse to believe it.
Be that as it may, it's a fact.
But to lose Cora's fortune...
Really Mama! You know as well as I do that Cora's fortune is not Cora's fortune anymore. Thanks to Papa it is now part of the estate and the estate is entailed to my heir. That is it, that is all of it.
Robert dear, I don't mean to sound harsh...
You may not mean to but I bet you will.
Twenty four years ago you married Cora, against my wishes, for her money. Give it away now, what was the point of your peculiar marriage in the first place?
If I were to tell you she'd made me very happy would that stretch belief?
It's not why you chose her. Above all the other girls who could have filled my shoes so easily...
If you must know, when I think of my motives for pursuing Cora I'm ashamed. There's no need to remind me of them.
Don't you care about Downton?
What do you think? I've given my life to Downton. I was born here and I hope to die here. I claim no career beyond the nurture of this house and the estate. It is my third parent and my fourth child. Do I care about it?! Yes, I do care!
Hope I don't hear sounds of a disagreement.
Is that what they call discussion in New York?
Well I'm glad you're fighting. I'm glad somebody's putting up a fight.
By the way, O'Brien says Bates is causing a lot of awkwardness downstairs. You may have to do something about it.
She's always making trouble.
Is that fair, when she hasn't mentioned it before now?
I don't know why you listen to her.
It is quite essentric, even for you, to have a crippled valet.
Please, don't use that word.
Did he tell you he couldn't walk when he made his application?
Don't exaggerate.
Doesn't it strike you as dishonest not to mention it?
I knew he had been wounded.
You never said.
You know I don't care to talk about all that.
Of course I understand what it must be like to have fought alongside someone in a war.
Oh, you understand that, do you?
Certainly I do. It must form the most tremendous bonds. And with a servant...
Really, even with a servant?!
Oh Robert, don't catch me out. I'm simply saying I fully see why you want to help him.
But.
But is this the right way - to employ him for a job he can't do? Is it any wonder the others' noses are put out.
I just want to give him a chance.
I'm going down. Coming?
In a moment. You go.
I know you're sad about Patrick. Whatever you say, I know it.
You're a darling. But you see I'm not as sad as I should be, and that's what makes me sad.
Perhaps she misunderstood.
No it was quite plain. O'Brien told her Bates can't do the job properly. Why was he taken on?
Oh, he was Lord Grantham's batman when he was fighting the Boers.
I know that. But even so.
I think it's romantic.
I don't! How can a valet do his work if he's lame?
He's not very lame. There. Anything else before I go down?
No. That's it. Thank you. ... Oh I hate black.
It's not for long. Mama says we can go into half mourning next month and back to colours by September.
It still seems a lot for a cousin.
But not a fiance?
He wasn't really a fiance.
No? I thought that was what you call a man you're going to marry.
I was only going to marry him if nothing better turned up.
Mary, what a horrid thing to say.
Don't worry, Edith would have taken him, wouldn't you.
Yes. I'd have taken him. If you'd given me the chance I'd have taken him like a shot.
Really Edith. Do you have to put on such an exhibition?
She's not.
I was supposed to be engaged to him, for heaven's sake, not you. And I can control myself.
Then you should be ashamed.
It does seem odd that my third cousin should be a doctor.
There are worse professions.
Indeed.
Seems like a lot of food when you think they're all in mourning.
Nothing makes you hungrier or more tired than grief. When my sister died, god rest her soul, I ate my way through four platefuls of sandwiches at one sitting and slept round the clock.
Did it make you feel better?
Not much. But it passed the time.
Tell her about James and Patrick. She won't have heard.
Of course I've heard. Why else would I be here?
Robert didn't want you to read about it in the newspaper and be upset.
He flatters me. I'm tougher than I look. I'm very sorry about poor Patrick, of course. He was a nice boy.
We were all so fond of him.
But I never cared for James. He was too like his mother and a nastier woman never drew breath.
Do you know the new heir?
Only that there is one.
He's Robert's third cousin, once removed. I have never to my knowledge set eyes on him.
Of course if your late husband hadn't forced me to sign that absurd act of legal theft...
My dear, I didn't come here to fight. Lord Grantham wanted to protect the estate. It never occurred to him that you wouldn't have a son.
Well I didn't!
No, you did not. But when Patrick had married Mary and your grandson been hailed as master, honour would have been satisfied. Unfortunately, now...
Now a complete unknown has the right to pocket my money, along with the rest of the swag.
The problem is saving your dowry will break up the estate. It would be the ruin of everything Robert has given his life to.
And he knows this?
Well if he doesn't, he will.
Then there's no answer.
Yes there is and it's a simple one. The entail must be smashed. In its entirety. And Mary recognised as heiress of all.
There's nothing we can do about the title.
No, she can't have the title. But she can have your money and the estate. I didn't run Downton for thirty years to see it go lock, stock and barrel to a stranger from god-knows-where.
Are we to be friends then?
We are allies, my dear, which can be a good deal more effective.
She was certainly reluctant to go in to mourning.
Well she'll have to, we all will. O'Brien's sorting out my black now and I've told Anna to see what the girls have that still fits. Of course, this alters everything. You won't try to deny it. You must challenge the entail now surely?
Can't we at least wait until we know they are dead before we discuss it?
Don't talk as if I'm not broken-hearted, because I am. Of course I've never understood why this estate must go to whomever inherits your title.
My dear, I don't make the law. [Mr Carson approaches] What is it?
The dowager countess is in the drawing room.
I'll come now.
She asked for Lady Grantham.
I wonder what I've done wrong this time?
I can't believe I've been passed over for Long John Silver.
You should have spoken up when you had the chance. Don't make the same mistake next time.
Who says there'll be a next time?
Is this a public holiday no one's told me of?
Does this mean I'll have to go in to full mourning?
My first cousin and his son are almost certainly dead. We'll all be in mourning.
No. I mean with the other thing. After all it wasn't official.
If you are saying you do not wish to mourn Patrick as a fiancee, that is up to you.
Well no one knew about it outside the family.
I repeat, it is up to you.
Well that's a relief.
Neither of them were picked up. That's what he said.
Mr Crawley and Mr Patrick?
That's what he said. Her ladyship was the colour of this cloth.
Well it's a terrible shame if it's true.
It's worse than a shame. It's a complication.
Well what do you mean?
What do you think? Mr Crawley was his lordship's cousin and heir to the title.
I thought Lady Mary was the heir.
She's a girl, stupid. Girls can't inherit. But now Mr Crawley's dead and Mr Patrick was his only son. So what happens next?
It's a dreadful thing.
I've had a telegram from George Murray. One of his partners is in New York.
Yes?
It seems James and Patrick were on board.
What?! They can't have been. They weren't going over till May.
Then they changed their plans. They're definitely on the passenger list.
Thank you, O'Brien, that'll be all for the moment. But surely they were picked up?
Doesn't look like it.
What?! Neither of them? You must tell Mary. She can't hear about it from anyone else.
I thought it was supposed to be unsinkable.
Every mountain is unclimbable until someone climbs it, so every ship is unsinkable until it sinks.
Why are the papers ironed?
What's it to you?
To dry the ink, silly. We wouldn't want his lordship's hands to be as black as yours.
Daisy? What ever are you doing there? Crouching in the dark.
You weren't here and I didn't like to touch the curtains with my dirty hands.
Quite right too.
Why didn't you put the lights on?
I daredn't.
It's electricity, not the devil's handiwork. You'll have to get used to it sooner or later.
At Skeleton Park they've even got it in the kitchens.
What for?
Oh heaven's, girl! You're building a fire, not inventing it. How many have you done?
This is my last til they come downstairs.
Very well. Now get back down to the kitchens before anyone sees you.
We'd better go in without her or it's not fair on Mrs Patmore.
Oh, is her cooking so precisely timed? You couldn't tell.
Oh my darling, what is it?
You heard him. Matthew this, Matthew that, Matthew, Matthew, Matthew. Oh mother, don't you see? He has a son now. Of course he didn't argue with the entail - why would he when he's got what he always wanted.
Your father loves you very much.
He wouldn't fight for me though.
He wouldn't fight for you because he knew he couldn't win.
You're no better.
What?!
You don't care about Matthew getting everything because you don't think I'm worthy of it.
Mary!
I wish you'd just admit it - I'm a lost soul to you. I took a lover with no thought of marriage; a Turk! Oh, think of that. Oh my dear. Don't worry, Mama, you can go down now. Everything will look better in the morning, isn't that what you usually say?
I say it because it's usually true.
Papa will wonder where you are.
Don't quarrel with Matthew.
Why shouldn't I?
Because one day you may need him.
Oh I see. When I've ruined myself I must have a powerful protector to hide behind.
Golly my corset's tight. Anna, when you've done that would you be an angel and loosen it a bit?
The start of the slippery slope.
I'm not putting on weight.
It didn't shrink in the drawer.
Are you coming down?
I don't know why we bother with corsets. Men don't wear them and they look perfectly normal in their clothes.
Not all of them.
She's just showing off. She'll be on about the vote in a minute.
If you mean do I think women should have the vote, of course I do.
I hope you won't chain yourself to the railings and end up being force fed semolina.
What do you think, Anna?
I think those women are very brave.
Here here.
Thomas is lovely, ain't he? He's funny and handsome and he's got such lovely teeth.
He's not for you, Daisy.
Of course, he's too good for me. I know that.
No. He's not too good.
What then?
He's not the boy for you and you're not the girl for him.
Isn't that what I just said? And why would he be? When he's seen and done so much and I've been nowhere and done nothing.
Perhaps Thomas has seen and done more than is good for him. He's not a ladies man.
Well, isn't it a blessed relief?
Daisy! Thomas is a troubled soul.
I don't know what you mean, Mrs Patmore.
Nothing. I don't mean anything.
I've got erasyphilis, your ladyship.
Oh, oh I am sorry.
Mrs Crawley tells me she's recommended nitrate of silver and tincture of steel.
Why, is she making a suit of armour?
I suppose I do.
Because I'm quite political. In fact, I brought some pamphlets that I thought might interest you. About the vote.
Thank you. But please don't mention this to my father or my grandmother. One whiff of reform and she hears the rattle of the guillotine.
The only one who never sticks up for me in all this is you. Why is that?
You are my darling daughter and I love you, hard as it is for an Englishman to say the words.
Well then.
If I'd made my own fortune and bought Downton for myself it should be yours without question. But I did not. My fortune is the work of others who laboured to build a great dynasty. Do I have the right to destroy their work? Or impoverish that dynasty? I am a custodian, my dear, not an owner. I must strive to be worthy of the task I've been set. If I could take Mama's money out of the estate, Downton would have to be sold to pay for it. Is that what you want? To see Matthew a landless peer with a title but no means to pay for it?
So I'm just a find-a-husband and get out of the way?
You could stay here if you married Matthew.
You know my character, father. I'd never marry any man that I was told to. I'm stubborn. I wish I wasn't but I am.
Anna's still not well. O'Brien, you'll need to dress the girls this morning.
All we know about Lady Mary and here I am waiting on her hand and foot.
Will we do anything with that?
Maybe. But not yet.
Leave me alone Mr Bates. I know you mean well but let me be.
What chance did he have up against a champion?
Now you listen, you filthy little rat. If you don't lay off I will punch your shiny teeth through the back of your skull.
Is this supposed to frighten me, Mr Bates? Because if it is, it isn't working. I'm sorry but it's just not working.
To break the entail we'd need a private bill in parliament?
Even then it would only be passed if the estate were in danger which it's not.
And I mean nothing in all this.
On the contrary, you mean a great deal. Very great deal.
You rang, m'lady?
Yes Carson. Mr Crawley was just leaving. Do you know where his lordship is?
Gone to bed, m'lady. He felt tired after he put Lady Grantham into the car.
I'll bet he did. Thank you Carson.
I'm sorry. I wish I could think of something to say that would help.
There's nothing. But you mustn't let it trouble you.
It does trouble me. It troubles me very much.
Then that will be my consolation prize. Goodnight cousin Matthew.
Goodnight.
I hope I haven't kept you up too late. I'm afraid we've interferred with your dinner.
It's been rather a chop and change evening downstairs.
Lady Grantham got off alright?
Alright is an optimistic assessment, sir.
It's very difficult, Carson. For her, for Lady Mary, for everyone.
It is, Mr Crawley. But I appreciate your saying so.
Where's Robert? He can't have been drinking port since we left. He'd be under the table by now.
His lordship's in the library.
All alone? Oh how sad.
No, he...
We can say goodbye to Papa for you Granny.
He's what?
He's with Mr Crawley, m'lady.
The question is, what do I say to cousin Violet?
Oh don't worry about that, I can handle her.
Really. Well if you can you must have learned to very recently.
I thought Anna might have come down for her dinner.
And show she's ready to start work again? Not a chance.
She's still in bed then?
She is. While I'm sat here, sewing like a cursed princess in a fairytale and not down at the fair with the others.
But Sybil darling, why would you want to go to a real school? You're not a doctor's daughter.
But nobody learns anything from a governess. Apart from French and how to curtsy.
What else do you need?
Well there's...
Or are you thinking of a career in banking?
No. But it is a noble profession.
Things are different in America.
I know. They live in wigwams.
And when they come out of them they go to school.
He's so agile, isn't he. He could have been a sportsman.
Who?
Thomas of course.
Really. What sport did you have in mind?
Granny came to see you? Is it all part of the great matter? .... So are you enjoying your new life?
Yes I think so. I know my work seems very trivial to you.
Not necessarily. Sometimes I rather envy you having somewhere to go every morning.
I thought that made me very middle class?
You should learn to forget what I say. I know I do.
How about you? Is your life proving satisfactory? Apart from the great matter of course.
Women like me don't have a life. We choose clothes and pay calls and work for charity and do the season. But really we're stuck in a waiting room until we marry.
I've made you angry.
My life makes me angry, not you.
Miss O'Brien, I've sent Anna to bed with a cold so I need you to manage the young ladies.
What, all three of them?! I'm not an octopus. Why can't Gwen do it?
Because she is not a ladies maid.
I am not a slave.
Just do it, Miss O'Brien, just do it.
Cousin Cora, to what do I owe...
I hope I'm not a disappointment. .... I'll pay you the compliment that I do not believe you wish to inherit just because nobody's investigated properly.
No, but...
Nor can Murray accuse you of making trouble when you're the one who will suffer most from a discovery.
You're right that I don't wish to benefit at Mary's expense from an ignorance of the law.
Putting it bluntly, do you think Robert has thrown in the towel prematurely? Good heavens, what am I sitting on?
A swivel chair.
Oh, another modern brainwave?
Not very modern. They were invented by Thomas Jefferson.
Why does every day involve a fight with an American?
I'll fetch a different one.
No no. No no. I'm a good sailor.
I couldn't wait a table in gloves. I'd look like a footman!
How about some house parties?
She's been asked to one next month by Lady Anne McNair.
That's a terrible idea. She doesn't know anyone under 100.
I might send her over to visit my aunt. She could get to know New York.
Oh I don't think things are quite that desperate. Poor Mary, she's been terribly down in the mouth lately.
She was very upset by the death of poor Mr Pamuk.
Why?! She didn't know him. One can't go to pieces at the death of every foreigner. We'd all be in a state of collapse whenever we opened a newspaper. Oh no, of course Mary's main difficulty is that her situation is unresolved. I mean is she an heiress or isn't she?
The entail is unbreakable. Mary cannot inherit.
No. What we need is a lawyer who is decent and honour-bound to look into it. I think perhaps I know just the man.
I would rather be put to death, my lord.
Quite so. Thank you, Carson.
Good day, m'lady. Is her ladyship alright? Has she recovered from...
If you think she'll ever recover from carrying the body of Mr Pamuk from one side of the house to the other then you don't know her at all.
Well I didn't mean recover exactly. Just get past it.
She won't do that either. When she dies they'll cut her open and find it engraved on her heart.
What about you? What about your heart?
Haven't you heard? I don't have a heart. Everyone knows that.
Not me, m'lady.
Good afternoon my dear.
Good afternoon.
There's no need to be so prim - I come in peace. Shall I sit here? Now I've been thinking ... I confess I do not know if I would have had the strength mentally or physically to carry a corpse the length of this house. But I hope I would have done. You were quite right - when something bad happens there's no point in wishing it had not happened. The only option is to minimise the damage.
Or try to. But if the Flinchers have ...
I've written to Susan. I said it was a story made up by Mr Pamuk's enemies to discredit him. Even if she doesn't believe me she won't tell in case it reflects badly on her. The ambassador is dangerous. But then, how many people really go to the Turkish embassy?
It only takes one.
Well, it can't be helped. We can't have him assassinated, I suppose.
Robert still doesn't suspect.
Well I should hope not. No, our only way forward is to get Mary settled as soon as possible.
I have news on that score. Matthew has proposed.
My, my. Has she said yes?
She hasn't said anything yet except that she's going to have to tell him about Pamuk.
For heaven's sake, why?!
She thinks to keep it secret would be dishonourable.
She reads too many novels. I mean one way or another everyone goes down the aisle with half the story hidden. The question is will she accept Matthew?
I'm not sure.
Well if she doesn't we'll just have to take her abroad. In these moments you can normally find an Italian who isn't too picky. We'll give her till the start of the grouse.
Very well. If she turns Matthew down we'll take her to Rome in the autumn.
It's official.
Thank you for not turning against her ...
In this case Mary has the trump card.
What?
Mary is family.
William, are you planning to go home soon?
Well it's a bit far for my half day. But I can maybe get the time to go in July when the family's in London. That's if I don't go with you, of course.
I think you should take a few days off and go now. I'll fix it. I'll speak to Father and to Carson - no one will mind.
But why, m'lady?
Your mother's not been well.
How do you know?
I heard someone mention it in the village. I forget who.
I had a letter and she never said.
I'm sure it's nothing. I know it would cheer her to see you.
Well, if it wouldn't be a bother?
It won't. I'll arrange it as soon as I get back.
Thank you very much, m'lady.
She ought to spend some time with the people she loves.
Is Matthew gone?
Yes.
Thank the lord he was there. I hope you thanked Matthew properly.
I got them to make him some sandwiches.
It's not quite what I meant.
And he asked me to marry him.
Heavens, what did they put in them?
I'm serious. He proposed to me.
Oh my dear. Have you given him an answer?
Only that I'd think about it.
Well that's an advance on what it would have been a year ago. Do you want to marry him?
I know you want me to marry him.
What we want doesn't matter. At least it's not all that matters. Do you love Matthew?
Yes. I think perhaps I do. I think I may have loved him for much longer than I knew.
Oh my darling, let's not pretend this isn't the answer to every one of our prayers.
I'd have to tell him ...
Oh. Is it absolutely necessary?
If I didn't I'd feel as if I'd caught him with a lie.
I hope you know that really smart people sleep in separate rooms.
I always keep the bed made up in the dressing room so at least I pretend we sleep apart. Isn't that enough?
No. Never mind. Goodnight.
If I might keep you for a minute more, Mr Carson.
If you'd like me to leave?
No I would like you to stay, Mrs Hughes, and you Anna. You have decided not to take action over the allegations Thomas has made against me because you believe them to be untrue.
That is correct.
And you are right, there is no truth in them. But if you were to proceed with the matter you would find them to be proven. Thomas has tried to convince you that I am a drunkard and a thief ...
Which we never believed.
Because you know no different. Until a couple of years ago I was a drunk and I was imprisoned as a thief. I have repaid your kindness very poorly. I masqueraded as a man of honour and integrity but by any moral code I am disgraced.
That can't be the whole story.
Perhaps not but it's enough of it to demand my resignation.
We can drink to Sybil's safe return.
Why not. I'll ring for a glass.
Never mind, here.
You're not very fastidious about doing things properly, are you.
Are you?
Less than you might think.
Thank you for coming to Sybil's rescue. You were very brave. She told me you knocked a man down.
I hope I did my duty.
Are you a creature of duty?
Not entirely.
When you laugh with me or flirt with me, is that a duty? Are you conforming to the fitness of things? Doing what's expected?
Don't play with me. I don't deserve it, not from you.
You must be careful not to break Sybil's heart. I think she has a crush on you.
Well that's something no one could accuse you of.
Oh I don't know.
I assume you speak in a spirit of mockery?
You should have more faith.
Shall I remind you of some of the choicest remarks you made about me when I arrived here? Because they live in my memory as fresh as the day they were spoken.
Oh Matthew, what am I always telling you. You must pay no attention to the things I say.
So am I, by heaven. If it had been left to that bloody fool Branson ... You should see what he reads, it's all Marx and Ruskin and John Stuart Mill. I ask you!
Papa prefers the servants to read the bible and letters from home.
She's not badly hurt, is she?
I don't think so, no.
Thank god.
Better be prepared. I'm afraid Lord Grantham will hit the roof.
I never would have taken her there. I may be a socialist but I'm not a lunatic.
I'm not sure Papa knows the difference.
Oh for goodness sake, hold it steady if you don't want to start again from the beginning.
Do these biscuits go up?
No, I put them out for the fairies.
Oh.
Of course they're going up! What's wrong with you? You're always dozy but tonight you make Sleeping Beauty look alert.
I was just thinking ...
Oh blimey, batten down the hatches.
I think I've let myself down.
Can't be a new sensation.
I'm glad to catch you. We have a conumdrum at the hospital and I would value your opinion.
Of course.
We've been treating the mother of your footman, William Mason.
What's the matter with her.
Heart, I'm afraid. She's forbidden us to say anything to her son.
Well that's ridiculous.
She's gone home now but she's still very ill. Clearly the boy should go and see her. And I assume you would have no objections?
Of course not.
So, do we break a patient's confidence and disobey her orders or not?
We can't if she's forbidden it.
I must say I agree with you.
Well I'll tell him.
No, you will not. She has rights too and there are rules.
I don't give a fig about rules.
Why hasn't he done anything? He's had the story and the witnesses.
The witnesses? What do you think this is, a murder mystery?
Well Mr Bates can't accuse me now - it'll sound as if he's trying to get his own back.
If I lose my job over this I swear to god I'll swing for you.
I know you're upset.
Yes I'm upset. I've been working here two years and yet Mr Carson has no difficulty believing the worst of me.
I think he has a great deal of difficulty which is why he hasn't told his lordship yet. Can't you just explain about Thomas?
Not now. It would sound like a false accusation.
You can't take it lying down because you're not guilty of any wrong. And before it's over I'm going to tell the world.
Are you? I'm not sure the world is listening.
But who's it from?
Susan Flincher.
What does she say?
Prepare yourself for the worst. Not the first page - my poor niece never uses one word when twenty will do. Start there - "I'm sorry ..."
Sorry?! She's thrilled. Now, first I must ask, and I want you to think carefully before you answer, is any of this true? .... I see. Some of it is true? .... How much?! .... Oh dear!
She didn't drag him.
I wondered about that. I mean obviously Susan's forgotton the distance between the girls' rooms and the batchelors' corridor.
She couldn't manage it alone.
So how did she do it?
I helped her. She woke me up and I helped her.
Well, I always thought this family might be approaching disillusion. I didn't know disillusion was already upon us. Does Robert know?
No, and he isn't going to.
Oh.
Of course it was terribly wrong, it was all terribly wrong but I didn't see what else ...
Please. I can't listen to your attempts to try and justify yourself.
I know this is hard for you to hear. God knows it was hard for me to live through. But if you expect me to disown my daughter, I'm afraid you will be disappointed. Good day.
So, what's new at the big house?
Sybil mainly. She's discovered politics which of course makes Papa see red.
I admire Sybil's passion though.
Of course. But then I like a good argument; Papa does not.
If you really like an argument ...
Yes.
Is Lynch anywhere about?
I haven't seen him, m'lady.
My horse is lame.
I could have a look at him.
Do you know about horses?
I looked after the horses on my father's farm. It was the best job in the world.
Then why did you leave it?
Me mother wanted me to have a chance at bettering myself.
As a second footman?
It's a good place for me, m'lady.
Of course it is. I'm sorry.
She hopes, one day, that I might be first footman, or even get to be ...
Carson better watch out.
Stranger things happen at sea.
Sir Anthony's here to show you his new car.
Oh.
I've rather taken to driving myself and I have to keep finding destinations to justify it.
What kind of car is it?
It's an open Rolls Royce and I wondered if you might like a spin in it?
Oh, how kind. But alas, not today. I've had Diamond saddled and he's waiting for me.
You could ride this afternoon.
But it's arranged now. But thank you Sir Anthony. Do ask me again.
I think I owe you an apology after the way I spoke at dinner.
Next time you want to treat me like a naughty school girl you might do it in private. Not in front of the servants.
You're right, I'm sorry.
Of course it gave your mother her best evening since Christmas.
Even so, we must try to keep control of Sybil.
Robert, believe me Sybil is not your problem. We've got to support Mary this year when we get to London.
But it's Sybil's first season. We can't have Mary stealing her thunder.
Sybil will do well enough. It's time Mary was settled. High time.
Poor old Edith. We never seem to talk about her.
I'm afraid Edith will be the one to care for us in our old age.
What a ghastly prospect.
I'm sorry. The only sure way to get rid of a servant is to have him or her suspected of stealing.
Aren't you forgetting we've tried that and it didn't work.
But last time we invented a theft. What we need to do is to make him a suspect when something's really been stolen.
How do we know anything's been stolen?
Because you stole it, ya noodle.
Oh you mean the wine.
Yeah, the wine.
But that's the whole point, Bates knows I took it. He was threatening to tell Mr Carson.
Well he can't, can he; not if we get in first.
Silly chump.
He's nervous. He thinks I'm planning to tell Mr Carson about the wine.
Well, he shouldn't have stolen it then, should he.
No. But I don't want anyone to lose their job because of me.
Even Thomas? Even after what they tried to do to you?
Even then.
I want to do some canvassing. The by-election isn't far off.
Canvassing?!
Oh it's quite safe. You're in a group and you knock on doors.
Yes I know what canvassing is.
I think that Sybil is ...
What? Are you canvassing too? Or would you rather take in washing?
I was only going to say that Sybil is entitled to her opinions.
No, she isn't until she is married. Then her husband will tell her what her opinions are.
Oh granny!
I knew you wouldn't approve.
Which presumably is why you all hid your plans from me.
Does this mean you won't be presented next month?
Certainly not. Why should it?
Well I doubt I'd expect to curtsy to their majesties in June, when I'd been arrested at a riot in May. But then I'm old, things may be different now.
She hasn't been arrested and it wasn't a riot.
Why does she waste her precious time on politics?
Here, here.
Don't you believe in rights for women, Thomas?
What's it to you?
Well I know you don't believe in rights of property. I think some people might find that interesting.
Who's going to tell them? You?
Sybil, I think it's time for Branson to take you home.
Not yet.
I think so. I applaud your spirit in coming out and will applaud your discretion when you leave.
But you agree with everything he says?
I do my dear. But I also know if anything happens to you, Branson will lose his place.
I hope you do go in to politics - it's a fine ambition.
Ambition or dream? If I do, it's not all about women and the vote for me. Nor even freedom for Ireland. It's the gap between the aristocracy and the poor and ...
And what?
Sorry. I don't mean to speak against his lordship.
Why not? You obviously don't approve of him.
Not as a representative of an oppressive class. He's a good man and a decent employer.
Spoken like a true politician.
So he definitely went in?
I saw him walk through the door.
But you don't know if he went back to his own room.
Yes I do because I was the one who found him there the next day.
What I mean is, you don't know if he went back under his own steam.
Suppose not, but how else would he have done it?
That's what they call the big question.
I don't want to get in any trouble over this.
Don't worry, you won't. Your secret's safe with me.
Are you looking for something?
Lady Mary? I just wanted to make sure the room had been tidied up after the people had left.
Life can be terribly unfair, can't it.
It certainly can.
Everything seems so golden one minute, then turns to ashes the next. Can I ask you a question, Carson? Have you ever felt your life was some how slipping away and there was nothing you could do to stop it?
I think everyone feels that at one time or another.
The odd thing is I feel, for the first time really, I understand what it is to be happy. It's just I know that I won't be.
Don't say that, m'lady. Don't raise the white flag quite yet. You'll still be mistress of Downton. Old Lady Grantham hasn't given up the fight, not by a long chalk.
Oh that. I wasn't even thinking about that.
And if I may say so, m'lady, you're still very young.
Am I? I don't feel it.
We're all behind you, m'lady. The staff, we're all on your side.
Thank you, Carson. You've always been so kind to me. Always, from when I was quite a little girl. Why is that?
Even a butler has his favourites, m'lady.
Does he? I'm glad.
Last night he looked so well. Course, it would happen to a foreigner. It's typical.
Don't be ridiculous.
I'm not being ridiculous. No Englishman would dream of dying in someone else's house. Especially someone they didn't even know.
Ah, just the ticket. Nanny always said sweet tea was the thing for frayed nerves. Though why it has to be sweet I couldn't tell you.
Is everyone all right downstairs?
Well, you know. He was a handsome stranger from foreign parts one minute and the next he was as dead as a doornail. It's bound to be a shock.
Of course. Upstairs or down. It's been horrid for the ladies, and for the female staff I expect.
Particularly hard on the younger maids.
Indeed. Don't let the footmen be too coarse in front of them. Thomas likes to show off. But we must have a care for feminine sensibilities - they are finer and more fragile than our own.
I wonder if I might risk embarrassing you because I should like to make myself clear. The truth is, Lady Grantham, I am not a vain man. I do not consider myself a very interesting person. But I feel it's important that my future wife should think me so. A woman who finds me boring could never love me and I believe marriage should be based on love. At least at the start.
Thank you for your faith in me, Mr Napier. Your instincts do you credit. Good luck to you.
I had an uncle who went like that. Finished his cocoa, closed his book and fell back dead on the pillow.
I don't think Mr Pamuk bothered with cocoa much. Or books. He had other interests.
I meant you can go just like that. With no reason.
Well that's why you should treat every day as if it were your last.
Well, we couldn't criticise Mr Pamuk where that's concerned.
What do you mean?
Nothing.
Perhaps you saw his qualities for yourself?
Which obviously,... you did.
What happened?
I don't know. Heart attack, I suppose, or a stroke, or... He was alive and suddenly he cried out and then he was dead.
But why was he here at all? Did he force himself on you?
Well, we can talk about that later. Now we must decide what to do for the best.
There's only one thing we can do.
I couldn't. It's not possible.
If you don't we will figure in a scandal of such magnitude it will never be forgotton until long after we are both dead. I'll be ruined, Mama, ruined and notorious. A laughing stock, a social pariah. Is that what you want for your eldest daughter? Is it what you want for the family?
We must cover him up.
I can't make his eyes stay shut.
Leave that and come away!
He was so beautiful.
Her ladyship's right, we must get back to our rooms.
I feel now that I can never forgive what you have put me through this night. I hope in time I'll come to be more merciful, but I doubt it.
You won't tell Papa?
Since it would probably kill him and certainly ruin his life, I will not. But I keep this secret for his sake, not for yours.
Yes Mama.
Anna, I will not insult you by asking that you also conceal Lady Mary's shame. Let us go.
He's dead. I think he's dead. No I'm sure he's dead.
But how?
We were together and... he's dead.
In your room?
We've got to get him back to his own room.
But how? It's in the batchelor's corridor, miles from my room.
Could we manage it between us?
He weights a ton. I can hardly shift him at all. We'll need at least one other. What about Bates?
He couldn't lift him. William can't keep a secret and Thomas wouldn't try to.
We've got to do something.
Then who else has as much to lose as you if it ever gets out?
Not Papa. Please don't say Papa. I couldn't bear the way he'd look at me.
No. Not his lordship.
You must be mad.
I am. I am in the grip of madness.
Please leave at once or I'll...
Or you'll what?
I'll scream.
No you won't.
I'll ring the bell then.
And who's on duty now? The hall boy? Will you really let him find a man in your bedroom? What a story.
Have you any idea what you're asking? I'd be ruined if they even knew we'd had this conversation, let alone if they...
What? Don't worry. You'll still be a virgin for your husband.
Heavens. Is this a proposal?
Alas no. I don't think our union would please your family.
I'm afraid not.
Nor mine. But a little imagination...
You and my parents have something in common.
Oh?
You believe I'm much more of a rebel than I am. If it's my mistake, if I've led you on, I'm sorry, but I'm not.
You are just what I think you are.
No. I've never done anything.
Of course not. One look at you would tell me that. Oh my darling.
Won't it hurt? Is it safe?
Trust me.
Mr Pamuk!
Let me come to you tonight, please.
I can't think what I have said that has led you to believe...
Please. I do not know when we will meet again so let it be tonight.
Mr Pamuk! I will not repeat your words to my father since I should hate to see you cast out in to the darkness. But can we agree to consider them unsaid. Now if you'll excuse me I shall rejoin my mother and sisters.
Mary has more suitors tonight than the Princess Aurora.
But will she judge them sensibly?
No one's sensible at her age, nor should they be. That's our role.
He doesn't look Turkish at all.
Well he doesn't look like any Englishman I've ever met, worse luck. I think he's beautiful.
Is there some crisis of which I'm unaware?
No Mr Carson.
I can not think of another reason why you should congregate here.
No Mr Carson.
What about Mr Pamuk? I gather if he takes a tumble we'll be endangering world peace.
Don't worry about Kamal, he knows what he's doing on a horse.
Well where is he?
Fussing. He's rather a dandy.
Well I can see him now - funny little foreigner with a wide toothy grin and hair reeking of pomade.
I wouldn't quite say that. Here he is now.
Lady Mary Crawley I presume?
You presume right.
Sorry to be so dishevelled. We've been on a train since dawn and we had to change in the shed.
You don't look dishevelled to me.
She asks if we can both dine on Saturday. There are two young men staying so you won't be so outnumbered for once.
What men?
Er, a Turkish diplomat called something I can't read and 'Lord Bransom's charming son', who's to be flung at Mary presumably.
When it comes to Cousin Mary she's quite capable of doing her own flinging, I assure you.
Which churches will you show him?
I can't decide,... Clariby possibly, or perhaps Eisenwold.
You don't think you're being a bit obvious?
Coming from you, that's rich.
There was a letter from Mr Napier in the evening post.
Ah, did he accept?
Not yet.
Perhaps he thought it was too obvious.
Daisy! What's happened to you? I said you could go for a drink of water, not a trip up the Nile.
Why is that down here? Who's been in my room? They had no right.
See here! In the first place none of the rooms in this house belong to you. And in the second, I am in charge of your welfare and that gives me every right.
This is you, isn't it.
All we want is to know what Gwen wants with a typewriter and why she feels the need to keep it secret.
She wants to keep it private, not secret. There's a difference.
Amen.
I've done nothing to be ashamed of. I've bought a typewriter and I've taken a postal course in shorthand. I'm not aware that either of these actions is illegal.
Will you tell us why, preferably without any more cheek?
Because I want to leave service. I want to be a secretary.
You want to leave service?
What's wrong with being in service?
Nothing's wrong with it. And there's nothing wrong with mending roads neither, but it's not what I want to do.
I should remind you that there are plenty of young girls who would be glad of a position in this house.
And when I hand in my notice I shall be happy to think one of them will be taking my place.
What makes you think we'll wait til then?
Are you hiring and sacking now, Miss O'Brien? I thought that lay with Mr Carson and Mrs Hughes.
Enough of this.
It's not of my doing; it's all Mary's own work. But I think we should encourage it.
Bransom's a dull dog but I don't suppose that matters.
Cora is right. Mary won't take Matthew Crawley so we better get her settled before the bloom is quite gone off the rose.
Is the family an old one?
Older than yours I imagine.
Old enough.
And there's plenty of money.
Really?
Mama. You've already looked him up in the stud books and made enquiries about the fortune. Don't pretend otherwise. Are you afraid someone will think you're American if you speak openly?
I doubt it will come to that.
You don't seem very pleased.
I'm pleased. It's not brilliant, but I'm pleased.
So...
I don't want Robert to use a marriage as an excuse to stop fighting for Mary's inheritance.
It won't make any difference. I don't think he has the slightest intention of fighting as it is. The price of saving Downton is to accept Matthew Crawley as his heir.
What about you?
I don't dislike Matthew. In fact I rather admire him.
Is that sufficient reason to give him your money?
Of course not!
Then there's nothing more to be said. Are we going to have tea or not?
Anything interesting?
Not particularly. It's from Evelyn Napier. You met him at the Delta Fields last November at Doncaster races.
Is that Lord Bransom's boy?
It is.
Do you like him?
I don't dislike him.
Where is he staying? With friends?
He says he's found a pub that caters for hunting.
Well we can improve on that. He must come here. He can send the horses up early if he wants.
He'll know why you're asking him.
I can't think what you mean. His mother's a friend of mine; she'll be pleased at the idea.
Not very pleased - she's dead.
All the more reason then. You can write a note too and put it in with mine.
Should I tell him about your friendship with his late mother?
I'm sure you of all people can compose a letter to a young man without any help from me.
My lords, ladies and gentlemen. Can I ask for silence? Because I very much regret to announce that we are at war with Germany.
So Mary is to be denyed her countess' coronet, after all.
Don't crow at me. I think she was very foolish not to take him when she could. And I told her so.
Well if I'm perfectly honest, I wonder if Matthew isn't making the same mistake right now.
Are you quite well, m'lady?
Of course. You know me, Carson, I'm never down for long.
I know you have spirit, m'lady. That's what counts; it's all that counts in the end. There, there.
Well Rosamund, your meddling has cost Mary the only decent offer she'll ever get.
I'm sorry, Mama, but you know me. I have to say what I think.
Why? Nobody else does.
But I don't understand, nothing's changed.
Everything's changed.
You can't be sure I was going to refuse you, even if it had been a boy, because I'm not.
That's the point, I can't be sure. Of you, or anything it seems. The last few weeks have taught me that.
But you can't leave Downton.
I can't stay. Not now.
Well what will you tell Papa?
That I'm grateful for what he's tried to do. But the experiment is at an end. I'm not a puppet. I must take charge of my own life again.
Would you have stayed if I'd accepted you?
Of course.
So I've ruined everything.
You've shown me I've been living in a dream. And it's time to return to real life. Wish me luck with it, Mary. God knows I wish the best for you.
I didn't know a garden party was a spectator sport.
Pretty though, isn't it. Hard to believe that clouds are gathering on a summer's day like this.
Mr Bates, I know you think it was wrong to call on your mother.
I don't think that. She likes you, by the way.
I had to find out the truth.
But you see you don't know the whole truth. Not even now. You know my mother's truth.
But not your wife's? Where is she now?
I couldn't tell you.
I'd better get back.
Nice girl, that Anna. Do you know if she's got anyone special in her life?
I'd like to say she hasn't. I would trully, but I'm afraid there is someone, yeah.
Do you think he's keen on her or is it worth a go?
Well, he keeps himself to himself. He's very hard to read at times but I'd say he's keen, I'd say he's very keen indeed.
I don't seem to be able to find your sister.
I wonder where she is? Of course she may have been cornered. I know there was some old bore she was trying to dodge.
Ah, who was that?
I'm not sure. Simply ghastly apparently. But he's promised to propose today. I can't tell you how funny she was when she acted it out. She ought to go on the stage.
Really. Ah, how amusing.
What a long faced lot.
Kindly show some respect.
Come on, Mr Carson, she'll get over it. They're no bigger than a hamster at that stage.
Will you shut up?
I agree. What is the matter with you, Thomas?!
I don't know, I suppose all this makes me feel claustrophobic. I mean, I'm sorry, of course I am. But why must we live through them? They're just our employers; they are not our flesh and blood.
Thomas, don't be so unkind.
Is there nothing left on earth that you respect?
Look at him! Blimey if he carries on like this for the unborn baby of a woman who scarcely knows his name, no wander he fell to pieces when his own mum snuffed it.
Anna, you're back safely then?
Yes, thank you, m'lord. And Mrs Patmore is fighting fit again.
Fighting fit's the phrase.
Sorry Papa, you can't go in there.
Why on earth not?
Gwen's in there with Mr Bromidge. She's being interviewed.
I cannot use my library because one of the house maids is in there applying for another job?
That's about the size of it.
First electricity, now telephones. Sometimes I feel as if I were living in an HG Wells novel. But the young are all so calm about change, aren't they? Look at Matthew. I do admire him.
Do you?
What have I done wrong now?
Oh please. Don't pretend Mary's sudden reluctance can't be traced back to you.
Well I shall pretend it. I told her to take him. Your quarrel is with my daughter Rosamund, not me. So put that in your pipe and smoke it.
Is it true you wrote to the Turkish ambassador about Kamal?
Who told you?
Someone who knows that you did.
Then why are you asking?
Because I wanted to give you one last chance to deny it.
Then what if I did? He had a right to know how his countryman died - in the arms of a slut.
Ten years of my life, that's what I've given her. Ten bloody years!
But did she say she'll sack you?
It's obviously what he wants.
So when will they tell you?
When they find a replacement. Heaven to fend she'd have to put a comb though her own hair. And if I'm going, you won't be far behind.
Well I'm very sad. I thought Mary was made of better stuff.
Don't speak against her.
Of course she's taken advice from someone with false and greedy values...
Oh mother!
Let me get this clear, at Sybil's ball you said you'd give me your answer the day you got back, and now you will not.
Why do we have to rush in to it? I need to be sure, that's all.
But you were sure. Shall I tell you what I think has altered you - my prospects! Because nothing else has changed.
No!
Yes. If your mother's child is a boy, then he's the heir and I go back to living on my wits and you'd rather not follow me.
Oh Matthew, you always make everything so black and white.
I think this is black and white. Do you love me enough to spend your life with me? If you don't then say no. If you do then say yes.
I want to... Granny told me I should say yes now, then withdraw if you lost everything.
To make that work you'd have to be a good liar. Are you a good liar?
Well not good enough to try it, apparently.
Sir Anthony Strallan was at Lady Wren's party - he asked after you.
Is she really serious about him?
Any port in the storm. Oh by the way, I was right about my maid - she's leaving, to get married. I mean, how could she be so selfish.
Now don't let Mary wait for the baby before she gives Matthew her answer.
I'm sure it's another girl.
I know those men of the moral high ground. If she won't say yes when he might be poor, he won't want her when he will be rich.
Mary, listen to me. If you take Matthew now when his whole future is at risk, he will love you to the end of his days.
Why Granny, you're a romantic.
I've been called many things but never that.
And what happens if the baby's a boy and Matthew loses everything?
Mary can always change her mind.
But I can't do that to Matthew. It's not how we are together.
Of all of you, Sybil might find joy in a cottage, but not you.
We don't know it'll be a boy.
Exactly. So ask Matthew to wait until the child is born. If it's a girl you can wed him happily and all will be as it was before.
But if I delay, won't he think I'm only after him for his position? Besides I'm not sure I want to put him off, even without the title. We get on so well you know. And he's terribly clever - he might end up Lord Chancellor.
And he might not. Oh come along, Mary, be sensible. Can you really see yourself dawdling your life away as the wife of a country solicitor?
I have a horrible feeling Simmons is about to hand in her notice. She's looking very fidgety lately and I saw her hurrying to meet the postman.
Oh you poor thing. Is there anything worse than losing one's maid?
I mean, why would she want to leave me? I've been as gentle as a lamb. Most of the time.
I love the thought of a baby in the house but if it's a boy...?
It'll be very hard on Mr Crawley. I know! I was no great champion when he first arrived. It seems to me he's tried his best and he's done the decent thing.
I can't see that coming off.
You don't mean the engagement?
But it's not an engagement yet, is it?
She'd never throw him over.
Mr Carson! Lady Mary Crawley does not deserve to have you.
I'm here today because I needed to tell you something face-to-face before you went to the country.
Face-to-face? Gracious me.
I've recently heard gossip about the time when I came to Downton with Kamal Pamuk, gossip that I believe has made life difficult for you. I have also heard it said that I am the source of these stories. It is very important to me that you should know that I am not. From that day to this I have never spoken one word on the matter.
Then who did?
It seems to have come from the Turkish embassy, from the ambassador himself, in fact, and his wife.
But who told them, if not you?
This is the hard part. When I discovered the answer I debated whether I should relay it. But in the end I feel you ought to know.
The suspense is killing me.
It was your sister, Lady Edith, who wrote to the ambassador. That is why people accept this story.
Edith.
It is very hard to believe.
Harder for you than for me.
Pregnant?
You needn't be quite so shocked.
Give me a moment. You haven't been pregnant for eighteen years.
And I'm pregnant now.
I don't understand what we've done differently.
Stop right there! If you want to ...[can't make out this bit]... offer the doctor some whisky.
I can't take it in.
But, you're pleased?
Of course. Of course I'm pleased.
It's unusual, obviously.
Unusual? It's biblical!
There's nothing like an English summer, is there.
Except an English winter.
I'm sorry you haven't received more invitations. But then after four seasons one is less a debutant than a survivor. My dear, is there anything you're not telling me?
No.
Only one hears stories.
There's nothing Aunt Rosamund.
So, have you decided whether or not to marry cousin Matthew? Oh there's no secret Cora can keep for more than a month.
You'd be surprised. I've told him I'll give him my answer the day I get back.
Well, it will be very tidy. At least we can say that.
Sybil, you were a great success in London, darling. Well done.
You never say that to me.
Don't I? You were very helpful, dear. Thank you.
I'm afraid Papa wants to teach Granny a lesson. Poor Granny, a month ago these people were strangers - now she must share power with the mother and I must marry the son.
You won't marry him, though, will you?
What? Marry a sea monster?
We shouldn't laugh, that's so unkind.
But he must marry someone.
Edith, what are you thinking?
You know, I don't dislike him as much as you do.
Perhaps you don't dislike him at all.
Perhaps I don't.
Well it's nothing to me, I have bigger fish to fry.
What fish?
Are we talking about E. N.?
How do you know that?! Have you been poking around in my things?
Of course not.
Come on. Who is he? It's not fair if you both know.
You won't be any the wiser but his name is Evelyn Napier.
The Honourable Evelyn Napier, son and heir to Viscount Brankson.
Who wants an old sea monster when they can have Perseus.
I've been meaning to speak to you about Moseley.
Oh.
Would you find me very ungrateful if I dispensed with his services?
Why? Has he displeased you in some way?
Not at all. It's simply that he is superfluous to our style of living.
Is that quite fair, to deprive a man of his livelihood when he has done nothing wrong?
Well I wouldn't quite put it...
Your mother derives satisfaction from her work at the hospital, I think; some sense of self worth.
Well certainly.
Would you really deny the same to poor old Moseley? And when you are master here is the butler to be dismissed? Or the footmen? How many maids or kitchen staff will be allowed to stay, or must every one be driven out? We all have different parts to play, Matthew, and we must all be allowed to play them.
Poor Mr Carson. We'll have to treat him like a god for a month to calm his nerves.
He'll be afraid this will change the way we think of him.
Then we mustn't let it.
Oh but it will. The Cheerful Charlies?!  (laughing) For all his talk of dignity, we know his story now.
And admire him more because of it.
Maybe, but it will change the way we think of him. It always does.
I don't see why. I shouldn't care what I find out about you. Whatever it was, it wouldn't alter my opinion one bit.
But it would, it certainly would.
How are things with Lady G?
Same as usual.
Yes m'lady, no m'lady, three bags full?
I'd like to give her three bags full, preferably on a dark night.
Will you hand in your notice?
And let her ruin me with a nasty reference? Oh I think not.
I'm sorry Mary was rather sharp this evening.
I doubt cousin Mary and I are destined to be close friends. I don't blame her. Her father's home and her mother's fortune are to be passed to me. It's very harsh.
What would you say if the entail were set aside in Mary's favour?
I should try to accept it with as good a grace as I could muster.
Would you?
I've been studying the story of Andromeda. Do you know it?
Why?
Her father was King Cepheus whose country was being ravaged by storms. And in the end he decided the only way to appease the gods was to sacrifice his eldest daughter to a hideous sea monster. So they chained her, naked, to a rock...
Really, Mary, we'll all need our smelling salts in a minute.
But the sea monster didn't get her, did he.
No. Just when it seemed he was the only solution to her father's problems, she was rescued.
By Perseus.
That's right, Perseus. Son of a god. Rather more fitting, wouldn't you say?
That depends. I'd have to know more about the princess and the sea monster in question.
By the way, if you ever want to ride, just let Lynch know and he'll sort it out for you.
Oh Papa, cousin Matthew doesn't ride.
I ride.
And do you hunt?
No, I don't hunt.
I dare say there's not much opportunity in Manchester.
Are you a hunting family?
Families like ours are always hunting families.
Glad to catch you alone.
You've driven the others away.
Perhaps I have. Pity. The point is, my dear, I don't want you, any of you, to feel you have to dislike Matthew.
You dislike the idea of him.
That was before he came. Now he's here I don't see any future in it, not the way things are.
I don't believe a woman can be forced to give away all her money to a distant cousin of her husbands. Not in the twentieth century - it's too ludicrous for words.
It's not as simple as that. The money isn't mine any more. It forms a part of the estate.
Even so, when a judge hears...
For once in your life will you please just listen! I believe there is an answer which would secure your future and give you a position.
You can't be serious?
Just think about it.
I don't have to think about it. Marry a man who can barely hold his knife like a gentleman?
You exaggerate.
You're American, you don't understand these things. Have you mentioned this to Granny? Did she laugh?
Why would she, it was her idea.
Why are you so against him?
Aside from the fact he's to steal our inheritance?
Your inheritance. It makes no difference to Sybil and me. We won't inherit whatever happens.
He isn't one of us.
I know I'm a disappointment to you, Moseley. But it's no good, I'll never get used to being dressed like a doll.
I'm only trying to help, sir.
Of course. And if I've offended you, I apologise. Surely you have better things to do?
This is my job, sir.
Well, it seems a very silly occupation for a grown man. (pause) Look I'm sorry if I'm... I'm sorry.
Friends! Who does she think she's fooling? We're not friends.
No?
No. And you're not friends with the girls neither. We're servants, you and me, and they pay us to do as we're told, that's all.
We were just saying how charming this room is now.
It always seemed rather dark when my mother-in-law lived here. But then she made everything rather dark.
You haven't got an admirer?
I might have. Why shouldn't I?
Don't tell Mrs Hughes, she'll bring the vicar around till you're exorcised.
How are we supposed to find husbands if we're never allowed to see any men?
Perhaps she thinks the stork brings them.
I thought you didn't like him.
Well so what! I have plenty of friends I don't like.
Would you want Mary to marry one of them?
Why do you always have to pretend to be nicer than the rest of us?
Perhaps I am.
Then pity your wife, whose fortune must go to this odd young man who talks about weekends and jobs. If Mary were to marry him then all would be resolved.
He chooses his clothes himself. He puts them out at night and hangs the ones he's worn. I get to take the linen down to the laundrey but that's about all.
That's all?
William, are you aware the seam at your shoulder is coming apart?
I felt it go a bit earlier. I'll mend it when we turn in.
You will mend it now and you will never again appear in public in a similar state of undress.
No, Mr Carson.
To progress in your chosen career, William, you must remember that a good servant at all times retains a sense of pride and dignity that reflects the pride and dignity of the family he serves. And never make me remind you of it again.
I wonder what that Mr Moseley makes of them?
Poor old Moseley. I pity the man who's taken that job.
Then why did you apply for it?
I thought it might help me to get away from you, Mr Bates.
You'll soon get used to the way things are done here.
If you mean that I'm accustomed to a very different life from this, then that is true.
What will you do with your time?
I've got a job in Ripon. I said I'll start tomorrow.
A job?!
In a partnership - you might have heard of it, Harvel and Carter. They need someone who understands industrial law, I'm glad to say, although I'm afraid most of it will be wills and conveyancing.
You do know I mean to involve you in the running of the estate?
Oh don't worry, there are plenty of hours in the day. And of course I'll have the weekend.
We'll discuss this later. We mustn't bore the ladies.
What is a weekend?
And Mr Lloyd George's new insurance measures will help.
Please don't speak that man's name; we are about to eat.
Do you think you'll enjoy village life? It'll be very quiet after life in the city.
Even Manchester.
Mama, may I present Matthew Crawley and Mrs Crawley. My mother, Lady Grantham.
What should we call each other?
Well we could always start with Mrs Crawley and Lady Grantham.
So what do you think we'll make of them?
I shouldn't think much. She hasn't even got a lady's maid.
It's not a capital offense.
She's got a maid. Her name's Ellen. She came a day early.
She's not a lady's maid, she's just a house maid that fastens hooks and buttons when she has to. There's more to it than that, you know.
We want some very precise reporting when dinner's over.
Are we to treat him as the heir?
Are we heck as like. A doctor's son from Manchester? He'll be lucky if he gets a civil word out of me.
We're all lucky if we get a civil word out of you.
I have to be myself, Mother. I'll be no use to anyone if I can't be myself. And before they or you get any ideas, I will choose my own wife.
What on earth do you mean?
Well they're clearly going to push one of the daughters at me. They'll have fixed on that when they heard I was a bachelor.
Lady Mary Crawley.
I do hope I'm not interrupting.
Lady Mary.
Cousin Mary, please. Mama has sent me down to welcome you and to ask you to dine with us tonight. Unless you're too tired.
We would be delighted.
Good, come at eight.
Won't you stay and have some tea?
Oh no, you're far too busy. And I wouldn't want to push in.
Lady Mary, I hope you didn't misunderstand me. I was only joking.
Of course. And I agree, the whole thing is a complete joke!
I won't let them change me.
Why would they want to?
Mother, Lord Grantham has made the unwelcome discovery that his heir is a middle class lawyer and the son of a middle class doctor.
Upper middle class.
He wants to limit the damage by turning me into one of his own kind.
When you met him in London you liked him.
Why was cousin Matthew in such a hurry to get away?
Don't be stupid.
I suppose you didn't want him when he wanted you, and now it's the other way around. You have to admit it's quite funny.
I'll admit that if I ever wanted to attract a man I'd steer clear of those clothes and that hat.
You think yourself so superior, don't you.
Ah...
Well I think she who laughs last, laughs longest.
I'm not a free man.
Are you trying to tell me that you're married?
I have been married, yes, but that's not all of it.
Because... because I love you, Mr Bates. I know it's not ladylike to say it but I'm not a lady and I don't pretend to be.
You are a lady to me and I never knew a finer one.
Mary can be such a child.
What do you mean darling?
She thinks if you put a toy down it'll still be sitting there when you want to play with it again.
As for you, giggling like a schoolgirl with cousin Matthew, it was pathetic.
Oh poor Edith, I'm sorry cousin Matthew has proved a disappointment to you.
Who says he has?
Matthew, he told me. Oh sorry, wasn't I supposed to know?
Spare me your boasting, please.
Now who's jealous?
Jealous?!  You think I couldn't have that old booby if I wanted him?
Even you can't take every prize.
Is that a challenge?
If you like.
I think I know where that snuff box is.
Where?
Hidden in your room.
You don't think that...
Then...
I bet Thomas would like it if they took you for a thief.
Yes I expect he would.
Go upstairs now and find it. And when you have, you can choose whether to put it in Thomas' room or give it to me and I'll slip it into Miss O'Brien's.
You naughty girl.
Fight fire with fire, that's what my mum says.
Mama, not again. How many times am I to be ordered to marry the man sitting next to me at dinner?
As many times as it takes.
I turned down Matthew Crawley - is it likely I'd marry Strallan when I wouldn't marry him?
I'm glad you've come to think more highly of cousin Matthew.
That's not the point.
No, the point is when you refused Matthew you were the daughter of an earl with an unsullied reputation. Now you are damaged goods.
Mama!
Somehow, I don't know how, there is a rumour in London that you are not virtuous.
What?! Does Papa know about this?
He knows it and he dismisses it because unlike you and me he does not know that it is true. Let's hope that it is just unkind gossip, because if anyone heard about...
Kamal? My lover, Kamal Pamuk.
Exactly. If it gets around and you're not already married, every door in London will be slammed in your face.
Mama, the world is changing.
Not that much, and not fast enough for you.
I know you mean to help; I know you love me. But I also know what I'm capable of. And forty years of boredom and duty just isn't possible for me. I'm sorry.
I do love you. And I want to help.
I'm a lost cause, Mama. Leave me to manage my own affairs. Why not concentrate on Edith - she needs all the help she can get.
You mustn't be unkind to Edith. She has fewer advantages than you.
Fewer? She has none at all.
You know what all work and no play did for Jack.
You think I'm a dull boy anyway, don't you. I play too - I'm coming up for dinner tonight. I suspect I'm there to balance the numbers. Is it in aid of anything?
Not that I know of. Just a couple of dreary neighbours, that's all.
Maybe I'll shine by comparison.
Maybe you will.
That's rather ungallant, Mother. I'm sure when we see cousin Violet's roses it will be hard to think they could be bettered.
Hard but not impossible.
You are quite wonderful the way you see room for improvement wherever you look. I never knew such reforming zeal.
I take that as a compliment.
I must have said it wrong.
What did she want?
Nothing. Just a message from Mama to say that Sybil had turned up alive.
Poor darling. She had to walk for miles. I don't think I'd have got down no matter how lame the horse.
No, I don't believe you would.
No one ever warns you about bringing up daughters. You think it's going to be like Little Women; instead they're at ach others throats from dawn til dusk.
The flower show? Oh I thought I was in for another telling off about the hospital.
No, this time it's the flower show.
Yes, but you don't usually win, do you. You always win.
Yes, I have been very fortunate in that regard.
You talk of Mr Moseley's pride. What about my gardener's pride? Is he to be sacrificed on the altar of Moseley's ambition?
What will happen if one of the maids finds your room is empty?
It would only be Anna and she wouldn't give me away. She's like a sister, she'd never betray me.
Well then she's not like my sisters.
I'm so sorry about that, m'lady.
Never mind, I was asking a lot. Do look after that girl.
Daisy? She's used to it. She'll be alright.
I wonder. Mrs Patmore looks ready to eat her alive.
So are you doing any more church visiting with Edith?
My mother's trying to set something up.
Well watch out, I think she has big plans for you.
Then she's in for an equally big disappointment.
His Lordship's blaming Mr Napier for spreading gossip about Lady Mary, but it was you, wasn't it.
Why do you say that?
Because Napier wasn't in on it. Only four people know he was in her room that night - you, me, Lady Mary, and possibly Daisy. And I haven't said nothing to nobody.
Well I didn't tell about Pamuk. I just wrote that Lady Mary was no better than she ought to be.
Who did you write it to?
Only a friend of mine, valet to Lord Sabertant.
You know what they say about old Sabertant - not so much an open mind as an open mouth. No wonder it's all around London.
Apparently the word is going around London that Evelyn Napier has given up any thought of Mary. That he's going to marry one of the Semple girls. She writes as if somehow it reflects badly on Mary.
Your dear sister is always such a harbinger of joy.
No, as if Mary had somehow been found wanting in her character.
Well I don't believe Mr Napier would have said that.
Well neither do I really.
She ought to be married. Talk to her.
She never listens to me. If she did she'd marry Matthew.
What about Anthony Strallan?
Anthony Strallan is at least my age and as dull as paint. I doubt she'd want to sit next to him at dinner let alone marry him.
She has to marry someone Robert, and if this is what is being said in London she has to marry soon.
I thought I'd write to Edith to settle our promised church visit.
If you want.
Well we can't just throw her over when she made such an effort to arrange the last one.
It's all in your head.
I don't think so.
Then she's barking up the wrong tree.
Poor Edith, I hope there's a right tree for her somewhere.
Poor Aunt Rosamund, all alone in that big house. I feel so sorry for her.
I don't. All alone with plenty of money and a house in Eaton Square - I can't imagine anything better.
Really Mary, I wish you wouldn't talk like that. There will come a day when someone thinks you mean what you say.
It can't come soon enough for me.